memo
===============

TO:	Corbett Upton, Vice President of Operations
FROM:	Sze Yan Li, Menu Innovation Marketing Manager
DATE:	November 15, 2013
SUBJECT:  Recommendations for the “Taste of the World” Campaign in Oregon, USA

Here is the report you requested on November 1 on recommendations for the “Taste of the World” campaign in Oregon, USA.  After a study on the state of Oregon, I found Japan’s Ebi Filet-O (a shrimp burger), Mexico’s McMollettes, and India’s Big Spicy Paneer Wrap to be adequate candidates for the campaign.  

The scope of the study involved secondary and primary research.  Secondary research consisted of a review of recent articles and various statistics or facts about the state of Oregon, while primary research involved distributing a questionnaire to Oregonians asking about their eating preferences.  However, this study did not involve an analysis of McDonald’s current sales in Oregon, nor did it involve an analysis on current successful or unsuccessful items at McDonald’s Oregon franchises.  

Here is a brief overview of the findings:
Climate and geography – Oregon contains a duality in climates due to the Cascade Rangers, which separates the state into two halves.  In Western Oregon, there are lush forests and heavy precipitation.  On the other side, Eastern Oregon is filled with deserts and tends to be rather dry.  
Demographics – Oregon is fairly diverse, with a Hispanic or Latino population around 12.2%, an Asian population of 4.0%, and a Black or African American population of 2.0%.  
Agriculture and food industries – A few of Oregon’s agricultural products include milk, cattle, berries, and potatoes.  Also, the state’s primary food industries include creameries and fisheries.
Eating preferences – Survey results show that most Oregonians are open towards the possibility of new menu items.  Their tastes greatly ranges, which also shows that the community is interested towards ethnic or international foods.

From the findings, I extracted international menu choices that best aligned with Oregon.  For example, Japan’s Ebi Filet-O burger is an adequate candidate due to shrimp being one of the main catches in Oregon’s fisheries.  As another example, Mexico’s McMollettes caters towards the Hispanic or Latino population in Oregon.  Finally, India’s Big Spicy Paneer Wrap would allow McDonald’s to work closely with Oregon’s famous creameries such as the Tillamook County Creamery Association to add a local taste to these international menu choices.  

A detailed analysis in my report shows that Japan’s Ebi Filet-O, Mexico’s McMollettes, and India’s Big Spicy Paneer Wrap would cater to Oregonians.  The report also tries to assess the possible use of local ingredients to specialize these international menu items for Oregonians.

Thank you for giving me the opportunity to work on this assignment.  It has been a great learning experience.  If you have any questions about the report, please give me a call at (503) 515-1713 or email me at szeyanli@live.com 
	
-----------------
As another example, Mexico’s McMollettes caters towards the Hispanic or Latino population and also caters towards Oregonians who would prefer a new breakfast menu item.  Finally, India’s Big Spicy Paneer Wrap provides an opportunity for McDonald’s to work closely with Oregon’s famous creameries such as the Tillamook County Creamery Association to add a local taste to the spicy cheese wrap.  
	
--------------
Before expressing the findings, I would like to address the limitations and the scope of this study.  First of all, this study does not involve an analysis of McDonald’s current sales in Oregon, nor does it involve a study of current successful or unsuccessful menu items at McDonald’s Oregon franchises.  Also, this study does not involve an analysis of health concerns or whether a recommendation has nutritional value.  This study chiefly focuses on choosing the three international menu items based on a general review of Oregon and answers from the survey.  Also, these recommendations are not absolute claims because one cannot certain that a person will like all aspects of a cuisine.  However, these items were selected based on what Oregonians might be most interested in.  Most importantly, the menu choices selected from the international may not be authentic representations of the country they are from.  